	Specific Shape, ff+fcfc

Consider the shape formed by a 9×3 rectangle with a 3×2 rectangle removed.
It is one of those Oklahoma shapes.
It is "standing up" or "pointing up" when it is oriented vertically,
with its pole pointing up.

Verify that this shape cannot lie face down on the floor.

Suppose a points down onto the floor,
Whence b points right and fills the notch of a.
Place c in the corner of a and b and note that c must be vertical.
If c points down then d fills the gap, and extends out over b, and creates another gap that can't be filled.
Thus c points up, so place d in the corner of b and c.
Now the notch of b, or the double notch of b and d (if d points down) is unfillable.
That takes care of a pointing down.

Suppose a points right and b stands in the notch of a and faces left.
Place c in the notch of b. If c is horizontal there is no way to fill the gap
of height 4 between a and c. If c stands up we could fill this gap with d and e,
but then we can't fill the gap between e and c.
If c points down and faces left,
it makes a gap of 3, which is filled by d pointing left.
This creates a gap of 4 to the left of b, which can't be filled.
Thus c points down into the notch of b and extends beyond b,
making a gap of height 10 with the floor.
We could reflect a and b under c,
but as shown above, we would need a reflection of c as well,
and that would crash into c. Thus d, to the right of a,
is not the reflection of a. If d points up,
and the tab of e fills the gap between d and c,
we have no way to fill the notch of e.
If d points down, e wraps around d, f fills
the notch of d on the floor, and the gap of 4 next to d cannot be filled.
Thus d points right, leaving a gap of height 7.
If e lies face up atop d, the notch of d cannot be filled.
Face down requires f atop e pointing right, then g atop f pointing left.
The notch of g cannot be filled.
Clearly e cannot be vertical. That takes care of b facing left.

Suppose a points right and b stands in the notch of a and faces right.
Place c in the notch of b. If c points down and faces left,
we have a gap of height 7 to fill. Three horizontal pieces might do the trick,
but that leaves a gap of width 2 next to c that cannot be filled.
The only other option is d pointing into b and e standing in the notch of d.
This forces f to point down into the gap between e and c.
Now d e f form the same pattern as a b c,
and this pattern propagates up and to the left forever.
Therefore c does not point down and face left.

If c points down and faces right, d fills the notch of c and points right,
extending well beyond b,
or c could be horizontal,
or c could stand up.
This gives a gap of height 7 to fill.
We can't reflect a and b without crashing into c or d,
or pointing a piece into the reflection of b, which faces right
and creates a configuration that we already ruled out on the left.
The other option, 3 horizontal pieces, e f and g, only works if c stands up.
This gives a gap of width 2 between c and g that cannot be filled.

Finally let c point down around b, giving a gap of height 4 with the floor.
Two horizontal pieces fill the gap, and create their own
gap of height 2 that cannot be filled.
That takes care of b facing right.

If b points down and faces left, c fills the gap and faces up,
d fills the gap and faces left, and it continues up and to the left forever.

If b points down and faces right, there is a gap of height 3,
and when this is filled with c, there is always a gap along the floor.

If a points right, b lies face down in the notch of a, and c,
the reflection of a, slides under b.

Now move to the lower left corner and assume a points right.
Let b point towards a on the floor and let c fill the double notch.
Place d on top of a and assume d points up the left wall.
We know that e points down onto d and f fills the double notch.
If f points down, the gap below f cannot be filled,
regardless of whether c points left or right. Thus f points up.
If c points left we have a gap of height 5 that cannot be filled.
Thus c points right, g stands face to face with d,
and h points down into the notch of g, back to back with f.
Now the back of g presents a gap of height 8.
Since this cannot be filled, we conclude that d does not point up.

Nor can d point down.
Nor can d point left.
d can only point right, face down, the vertical reflection of a,
c points right, and e points left into the notch of d.

We might try to stand three pieces on top of d, but the rightmost, call it f,
faces right, and when we place g in the notch of f, we find a gap of height 5,
or possibly height 2 if the tab of g slides down the face of f,
that cannot be filled. Therefore f lies back to back on top of d.

Place g on top of f. If g is horizontal it must lie face down and point right.
When the double notch is filled by h and i,
we find exactly the same pattern we saw 6 rows earlier.
This might continue forever, so assume g puts a stop to it by pointing up the left wall.

Now g h and i make a long complex up the left wall, as described earlier.
Suppose i points up and j stands face to face with g.
Let k point down into the notch of j, giving a gap of height 11.
Put l in the notch of f, but not vertical,
and not pointing right as the remaining gap of 8 could not be filled.
l points left, m stands in the notch of l,
the tab of n fills the gap between m j and k,
and the notch of n cannot be filled.

j is horizontal, but not face up as the gap between j and f cannot be filled.
Nor is j face down pointing right.
j is face down, pointing left, and wrapped around f.
There is now a gap along g, between j and i, of height 5 or 2,
that cannot be filled. That completes the proof.
