	Specific Shape, c080!00c040

Start with the pentomino c080!00c0, which has order 108,
but put a knob on one of its legs.
The knob is proximal to the cube that connects the two legs.
This is in contrast to c080!00c0!40.

Put A in the lower left back corner.
If the knob of A is in the corner, let A run to the right.
This presents a notch, whence another piece must slide beneath and head to the right.
A forces another piece along the wall.

A could also run left to right with its knob pointing right.
If A is in the corner, then its knob is not along the edge.

Without loss of generality, assume A in the corner runs left to right.
Now, skip ahead along the edge of the floor and the back wall,
and let B be the rightmost piece that runs left to right,
and has its knob on the left and in the edge,
or its knob on the right and its leftmost end touching the edge,
whence its knob on the right can't touch the edge.
Since A exists, there must be such a B.

Let the knob of B be on the left and in the edge.
There is a gap of height 2 between B and the back wall.
Put C in this gap.
Naturally C must not collide with B.
C could be a translate of B, but that contradicts B as rightmost.
C could stand up on its knob and wrap around B on the right,
but that presents another gap of width 2 on the floor, just as we saw with B.
These gaps of width or height 2 can't continue forever.
C could tuck one leg in behind B,
but then it runs left to right with its knob on the right.
Each orientation of C contradicts B as rightmost.

Keep B left to right, but put its knob on the right.
The knob is not along the edge,
since that would not put the left end of B against the edge.
So roll B up 90 degrees.
Its knob is against the back wall, so that there are two empty spaces below B.
C can only fill this with its knob.
This is geometrically possible, but it creates a gap of width 2 on the floor below C,
which leads to a contradiction.

Roll B again, so that its knob points right but doesn not touch
the floor or the back wall.
Put C against the edge next to B.
C can't wrap around the knob of B, else the knob of C crashes
into the back wall or the floor.
Slide the leg of C behind B, and the knob of C juts out to the right.
The same happens if we slide the leg of C under the knob of B.
Put the knob of C against the back wall.
C can't run left to right, that looks like B.
If C runs back to front, it wraps around B on the right,
and the same happens if C stands up on its knob.
C creates a space of height 2, or width 2.
We've seen this before, it leads to a contradiction.
Those are all the orientations for C.

Roll B again, so that it's knob is on the floor.
Now the leftmost end of B doesn't touch the edge,
which contradicts the definition of B.

Those are all the orientations for B, and that completes the proof.
