	Specific Shape, f8f8f8e0

Consider the shape formed by a 5×4 rectangle with a 2×1 rectangle removed.

Verify that this shape cannot point down or lie face down on the floor.

If a, on the floor, faces right, b, next to a, must point towards a, and c,
in the resulting gap, interlocks with either a or b.
However, if a points right, b faces or points left, with c in the resulting gap.
Thus pieces on the floor are grouped into pairs that face or point towards each other.
Call these pairs, and the pieces just above them, complexes.

The small complex, of width 9, is said to face left or right,
depending on the orientation of a. A large complex, of width 10,
faces left or right according to the orientation of c in the a-b gap.

Put two large complexes next to each other.
This produces a troublesome gap of width 6 and height at least 2.
This can only be filled with two pieces pointing down, back to back.
Adjacent large complexes face each other, and are reflections of each other.

Put a small complex to the right of a large complex, facing the large complex.
If f, in the gap of the small complex, faces right,
We have a gap of width 6, but this time it can't be filled.
Let f and d interlock.
This gives a gap of 4, and g stands up in this gap.
g stands one level higher than c.
g and c must stand back to back.
Put h in the notch of c.
However you do it, there is a gap above c between h and g that cannot be filled.
A small complex cannot face a large complex.

Let a start a large complex facing right.
Put j in the corner of b and c.
j cannot point right, nor face right, nor point left.
j can only face left, point down, and interlock with c.
We can automatically add this piece to a large complex.

Put k in the corner of a and c.
If k is horizontal, or stands up, this complex can't be next to the left wall,
nor can it have a small complex facing it (as shown earlier),
nor a small complex facing away,
nor can it have a large compmlex on its left, as that produces a gap of width 1 or 2.
If k points down we have a gap of height 6 down to the floor,
and no way to fill that.
So k points left and lies face down on a.
We can automatically add this piece to a large complex.
This implies a small complex to the left of a, facing left.
If this complex is d e f, f points down and interlocks with d, thus meeting k.

Let a start a small complex facing right.
Suppose c points right, interlocking with b.
Put d on the floor next to b.
d cannot be vertical, nor can it point left, thus it points right.
Put j in the corner of b and c.
j cannot be horizontal, as that makes a gap of one square with d.
If j points down and faces right it creates a gap of height 2.
Therefore j stands up.
If j faces right, d cannot initiate a large or small complex on the floor.
There are always gaps next to j that can't be filled.
Thus j faces left.
We can automatically add this piece to a small complex,
whenever the central piece lies face down.

But there's more.
d can't start a large complex, with the small complex facing it,
so it starts a small complex facing left.
This is a d e f complex where f points down and interlocks with e, and,
j and f are back to back.
The two complexes face each other.
This happens whenever the central piece of a small complex lies face down.
We can always fill in the other small complex.

Conversely, if two small complexes face each other, the central pieces cannot
both point down and face away from each other.
If they do, there is a troublesome gap of width 6 that can't be filled.
Instead, they look like a b c and d e f above, with j filling the gap.

Let a start a small complex facing right.
Suppose c faces left, interlocking with a.
This complex cannot sit against the left wall, or the right wall.
Put g in the corner of b and c.
If g points down we have a gap of height 6.
If g is face down then a new small complex begins under g,
facing right, to the right of the first complex.
If this is d e f, then f faces left and interlocks with d.
This is a translate of a b c.
This establishes a train of small complexes facing right.
The train builds a flat line at level 8.
Since the train cannot run into the right wall, it must stop eventually.
If g is face up, or stands up, it implies either a large complex to the right,
which is impossible, or a small complex facing left.
By the above paragraph, the central piece points left.
g is now the automatic piece that comes in; it stands up and faces right.
This establishes a train of small complexes facing right, capped by a small complex facing left.
Before this train we might have a large complex facing away from the train,
and remember that a large complex implies such a train.
We could also have another train going the same direction, a train of trains,
or a train going the other way.

Most complexes cannot sit next to the right wall.
Only the large complex facing right,
or the end of a train heading right.

Put the large complex against the wall.
If you turn your head, this is a train going down the wall, with small complexes facing down, and then this corner is a small complex facing up to end the train.
The automatic piece j comes in above c.
It lies face down atop c and juts 2 squares to the left.
k lies in the corner of a and c, pointing left, and forces a train to the left.
Bad news, there is a slot of height 1 between j and k that cannot be filled.
A large complex does not touch the right wall.

Put the end of a train heading right against the right wall.
This implies a large complex against the right wall, facing down into the corner.
This has already been ruled out.

That completes the proof.

I don't know why trec @f8f8f8e0 didn't take care of this, but it seems to run
forever. Granted, it's not efficient, not optimized, but stil...
Seems like by diagonal 20 or so it should discover this problem in the corner.
