The hex puzzle, on a 3 by 20 board, can be analyzed manually;
you don't need to run hexsol -d 3, although that is confirmation.
This proof is almost as long as hexsol.c, but it's fun.

The cross cuts the board in two, a section to the left and a section to the right.
Each side has area divisible by 5.
The center of the cross has to be in column 3, 8, 13, or 18.
If the cross is centered at 3, it forces C to its left.

The zigzag cuts the board in two, a section to the left and a section to the right.
Like the cross, the zigzag borders 2 empty squares on its left and 2 on its right.
Like the cross, the center of the zigzag is in column 3, 8, 13, or 18.
If it is at 3, it forces chair or Utah to its left.

If T or faucet is vertical, its midline is in column 3, 8, 13, or 18.
T at 3 forces Utah to its left.
Faucet at 3 forces Utah or C to its left.

If stairs face the cross, their centers are 8 apart.
If stairs face away from the cross, their centers are 7 apart.
They could be 13 or 12 apart if you have the room.
You don't have the room if the cross is in one of the middle positions.
Stairs is always in the larger section of the rectangle, as cut by the cross.

Assume stairs and zigzag are proximal.
Example: stairs are at 10 or 11, and zigzag is at 13.
If zigzag is horizontal, stairs are at 10, leaving a gap shaped like Y.
If zigzag is vertical, stairs nestle into the zigzag, or abut the zigzag, leaving a gap shaped like Utah.

Suppose the chair faces right, with its back in column 11,
neatly cutting the rectangle into two smaller rectangles.
It is not possible to arrange the cross and stairs as above.

Let's try to build a 3 by 5 rectangle.
It can't contain stairs, zigzag, cross, or long.
If it has faucet it consumes C and Utah, valuable pieces.
Lightning also consumes C and Utah, or L and chair.
Y consumes C and Utah, or L and T.
Chair could consume C and Utah, or L and Utah.
Those are the only cases.

Suppose the back of the chair is in column 6, facing right, and demarks a 3 by 5 rectangle on its left.
Cross has to be at the far right, in column 18,
whence stairs are centered at column 10 or 11.
C is against the right wall.
That leaves only L Y and T to fill the left subrectangle.
Put zigzag at column 8, wrapping around the chair.
With stairs next to zigzag, we need Y, and Y is consumed.
Thus zigzag is at column 13, the other side of stairs.
Again, zigzag can't be horizontal, because Y is consumed.
zigzag is vertical.
Put stairs at 11.
Verify that we cannot fill the gap between chair and stairs with the pieces we have left.
Put stairs at 10,
whence Utah fills the gap.
Yet we need another Utah between chair and stairs.
Therefore, chair is not at column 6.

Suppose the back of the chair is in column 16, facing right, and begins a 3 by 5 rectangle.
That rectangle is completed by L and lightning or L and Utah or C and Utah.
Invoking symmetry, put the cross at column 3, and the stairs at 10 or 11.
C is at column 1, and not over on the right.
Zigzag is proximal to the stairs.
Suppose zigzag is horizontal, consuming Y.
If zigzag is at 13 we need another chair.
Zigzag is at 8, stairs are at 11, and the only way to fill the gap between stairs and chair is with T and Utah or L and Utah.
Use T and Utah,
which puts L and lightning on the right edge,
and leaves faucet and long still available.
But we need Utah and long to fill the gap next to cross, so this doesn't work.
Thus zigzag is vertical.
Put it on the right of the stairs and fill the gap between zigzag and chair with Utah.
Again, L and lightning are at the right edge.
With Utah gone, stairs nestle against zigzag.
We have long, Y, T, and faucet left over.
T horizontal doesn't work.
T vertical is at column 8, and there's no place to put long.
So put zigzag left of stairs.
Put stairs at 11, which puts Utah between zigzag and stairs.
That leaves L and lightning on the right edge.
We can't fill the gap between stairs and chair with what we have left.
So stairs nestle against zigzag.
If T is horizontal, it is against chair, and is surrounded by lightning and long.
L and Utah are at the right edge.
We can't fill the gap between cross and zigzag with what we have left.
T has to be vertical, and is in column 13, and has Utah on its right.
To the left of T we need Utah, or stairs, and that doesn't work.
That completes chair at column 16.

The only place left for chair is against one of the edges.
That rules out one of the four locations for cross.

Suppose T is horizontal, and put it at column 11, neatly cutting the rectangle in half.
It is not possible to arrange the cross and stairs.

Suppose the top of T is in column 6, pointing right, and demarks a 3 by 5 rectangle on its left.
Cross has to be at the far right, in column 18,
and stairs are centered at column 10 or 11.
C is against the right wall.
Chair has to be at the left edge.
This fills in with L and lightning or L and Utah.
Stairs at 10 doesn't work.
Stairs at 11 requires long and lightning between T and stairs.
To the right of stairs is zigzag vertical.
Right of zigzag has to fill in with Y and faucet, but it can't.

Suppose the top of T is in column 16, facing right, and begins a 3 by 5 rectangle.
This fills in with Y and L.
Chair is at the left edge, cross is at 13, C is at 15,
stairs is at 5 or 6.
Zigzag is proximal to stairs, and can't be horizontal because Y is consumed.
Zigzag can't be at 3, so is at 8.
Suppose stairs are nestled next to it.
Fill in between chair and stairs, but we can't do that without Y.
Let stairs abut zigzag, with utah between.
Now we need another Utah between chair and stairs.

If T is horizontal it has to be up against an edge.
Put it on the left, with chair on the right.
Put cross at 8.
Between T and cross we have to have Y L and C.
Stairs an zigzag are proximal, and Y is consumed, so zigzag is vertical, at 13.
We have to fill in between stairs and chair.
We've seen this pattern before.
It requires two Utahs, or Y and long, and Y is consumed.
Therefore cross is at 13, and stairs is at 5 or 6.
5 doesn't work with T next to it.
Put stairs at 6 and fill in with lightning and long.
Zigzag is at 8 vertical.
Between zigzag and cross is Utah and L or Utah and C.
It is not possible to fill in the last gap with the 3 pieces we have left.
Therefore, T is vertical, and at column 3, 8, 13, or 18.

Suppose cross is at 8.
Further suppose T is at 3.
Utah is on the left edge, and the gap between T and cross fills in with Y and lightning.
Stairs and zigzag are proximal, and Y is gone, so zigzag is vertical.
Utah is gone, so stairs nestles against zigzag.
Chair is at the far right, so zigzag has to be at 13.
This puts stairs centered at 15.
Between stairs and chair is a gap we've seen before, requires Y, so cannot be filled.
Therefore vertical T is not at 3.

Put T at column 18, which puts Utah on the right and chair on the left.
If zigzag is at 3, we can't fill in the rest of the gap without Utah, thus zigzag is at 13.
Suppose zigzag is vertical.
We need stairs and Utah to fill the gap between zigzag and T, and Utah is gone.
Therefore zigzag is horizontal,
and Y and stairs fill the gap between zigzag and T.
Between cross and zigzag we need either Utah or chair, so that ends that pathway.

T is at column 13.
Suppose zigzag is vertical.
It joins Utah at one of the edges.
With Utah gone, stairs is up against T on the right.
If Zigzag and Utah are at the right edge, we need another Utah or stairs to fill the gap.
If chair is at the right edge, we must fill with Y and long.
The gap between cross and T requires Utah or Y, so that is a dead end.
Zigzag must be horizontal.
It wraps around chair at one of the ends.
Put zigzag on the right, which puts stairs up against T, and fills the gap with Y.
The gap between cross and T fills with Utah and L or Utah and C.
If faucet is vertical it is at 3, and there's no room for long.
By counting squares, horizontal faucet has to be centered at 5, and that doesn't work.
Therefore zigzag and chair are on the left.
The gap between zigzag and cross is filled with long and Utah.
With Utah gone, the gap between T and cross fills in with Y and lightning.
With Utah gone, stairs nestles against T.
We can't fill the last gap with L faucet and C.
We have exhausted the positions for vertical T, and that is the end of cross at 8.

We've come so far, and still no solutions.
Let's put cross at 3 and hope something comes of it.
C is at the left, and chair is at the right.
Put zigzag at 18, thus wrapped around the chair.
Stairs can't work at 16.
Put stairs at 15 and fill in with Y.
Put T at 8, and we are rather restricted in where we can put long between T and stairs.
The only workable configuration is long faucet and Utah.
That leaves lightning and L to fill the gap between cross and T, and that doesn't work.
So put T at 13, up against stairs.
If faucet is vertical it is at 8, but then there is no room for long.
By square count, the first workable horizontal faucet pointing right is at 10,
but that creates tiny gaps with T.
The first workable horizontal faucet pointing left is at 11, up against T.
We must fill in using long lightning L and Utah.
Assume T points up, and the longer span of width 8 is on the top row.
Put long on the bottom row, and lightning has to tuck in next to it.
That doesn't leave room for L and Utah.
Put long on top and over against faucet.
We still can't fill in the gap.
Finally put long on top and against cross.
The other three pieces fill in and we have our first solution!

EEABBBBBKKKLDFJJJJGC
EAAAIIHKKLLLDFFJGGGC
EEAIIIHHHHLDDDFFGCCC

Put stairs at 10 or 11.
T is proximal to stairs.
Either T nestles against stairs, or it abuts stairs with Utah in between.
By square count, horizontal faucet doesn't work, anywhere.
Faucet is vertical, and stands where T is not.
Thus faucet and T bracket stairs and Utah.
If faucet is at 8, the gap between cross and faucet requires two C's or two Y's.
Faucet at 13, and Utah gone, and we can't fill the gap between faucet and zigzag.
That takes care of zigzag at 18.

At this point T and zigzag are at 8 and 13.
Put the stairs all the way over to 16.
Utah fits between the stairs and chair.
With Utah gone, we have to put zigzag at 13, horizontal,
with Y between zigzag and stairs.
That puts T at 8.
With Utah and Y gone, we can't fill the gap between cross and T.

Put the stairs at 15.
Fill the gap between stairs and chair with Y and long.
T and zigzag bracket a gap of ten squares, two pieces.
Suppose zigzag is vertical.
T could have its tab on the same level as the tab of zigzag, or not.
The former admits Utah and L.
The latter admits two C's or two Utahs or two lightnings or two stairs, unworkable.
Now we have the gap between cross and T, or cross and Zigzag.
Without Y and without Utah, we can't fill this gap.
Let zigzag be horizontal, whence it is at 8.
Fill the gap between zigzag and T, with Y gone.
One orientation mandates C and L, the other mandates long and Utah.
C and long are gone, so this doesn't work.

Stairs are at 10 or 11.
Suppose zigzag is horizontal.
Y fits between stairs and zigzag, and T is on the other side of the stairs.
Put zigzag at 8.
The gap between cross and zigzag has long and Utah.
The gap between T and chair has 15 squares, 3 pieces.
Let the tab of T and the base of the chair be at the same level, on the floor.
This can't be filled with the pieces we have left, faucet lightning and L.
Let T stand up.
This gap can be filled.
This is our second solution!

EEABBBBBGFFDDDLHHHHC
EAAAIIGGGJFFDLLLKKHC
EEAIIIGJJJJFDLKKKCCC

Put zigzag at 13, still horizontal.
The gap between cross and T fills with L and Utah.
We can't fill the gap between zigzag and chair.

Let zigzag be vertical.
zigzag and T bracket stairs and Utah.
The gap between cross and T or zigzag is lightning and Y.
We can't fill the gap between T or zigzag and chair with long faucet and L.

That completes the proof.
