	Techniques for Establishing Factors of the Order of a Polyomino

	Notation

Across this project, a concise hexadecimal notation is used to represent
a polyomino. The hex digits are grouped into pairs as usual,
each pair describing the bits of a byte. Each byte describes one row
of the polyomino, starting at the bottom and going up.
Each bit in this byte indicates an occupied square,
where the high order bit denotes a square in the leftmost position.
Thus ff, f0f0, and c0c0c0c0 are all rectangles consisting of 8 squares.
The shape f8e0e0 consists of a row of 5 squares,
with two rows of three squares above it.
c06030 is the hexomino stairs.

A plus sign indicates a ninth bit, so that ff+fcfc
is a row of 9 and 2 rows of 6. Use braces for a second byte,
so that ff{e0} is a row of 11.
You can use this notation in the config file, however,
my software can't analyze a shape whose diameter exceeds 9.
See README for more information on the config file and running the trec program.

	Checkerboard Argument

Evidence suggests every nontrivial polyomino has an even order.
Although this remains an open conjecture, we can prove it for several
specific shapes, and several classes of shapes.

Several polyominoes, such as f840, f0e040, e0f080, and fe70,
yield to the checkerboard argument. Given a tiled rectangle,
overlay a traditional black-and-white checkerboard. Because the base polyomino
consists of an even number of squares, the rectangle has at least one
even dimension, and the number of black squares in the rectangle equals
the number of whites. Yet each piece, no matter how oriented,
introduces either an excess or a deficiency of 2 white squares.
Since excesses and deficiencies must cancel, the number of pieces
in the rectangle is even. The order is even.
trec checks for this, and asserts an even order,
if you haven't already done so in your config file.

	Alternating Stripes

The shape fcf030 evades the checkerboard argument,
since it tiles as many white squares as black.
Suppose its order is odd while both dimensions of its rectangle are even.
This is possible because the shape contains 12 = 2×2×3 squares.
Overlay vertical black and white stripes upon the rectangle.
Shapes that are oriented horizontally consume 6 white squares and 6 black
squares, but each vertical piece introduces an excess or deficiency of 4.
These must sum to 0, hence there are an even number of vertical pieces.
By overlaying horizontal stripes, there are an even number of horizontal pieces
as well. That implies an even order.
Therefore, if the order is odd, one of the dimensions is odd, and the other
is 4 mod 8. The same argument holds for other shapes such as fffc3c30.

	Sparse Checkerboard

Continuing our analysis of fcf030, assume the width of its rectangle is a
multiple of 4, while the height is odd.
Overlay a checkerboard upon this rectangle,
but this time the white squares are replaced with alternating red and blue
squares, and the black squares play no role. Thus each row is colored
red black blue black red black blue black ... in sequence.
With red in the lower left corner, phase shift the rows so that the red squares
slant up and to the left, as do the blue squares.
Because each row is divisible by 4, red and blue are represented equally.
Now each piece, no matter its orientation,
introduces an excess or deficiency of two red squares,
hence there are an even number of pieces. The same proof works for fffc3c30.
As of this writing, the order of the latter piece has not been established,
but we know that the order is even.

The sparse checkerboard still works if both dimensions are 2 mod 4.
This because each 2 by 2 square contains two blacks, one blue, and one red.

	Larger Checkerboard Squares

Because f0e020 has 8 squares, we can immediately posit a rectangle whose width
is a multiple of 4. Overlay a black and white checkerboard,
but this time the squares are two units on a side.
Such a checkerboard can be placed in one of 4 positions,
as determined by the coordinates of the lower left corner of the lower left
2×2 square (black or white) that is wholly contained within the rectangle.
No matter the phase of the checkerboard, black and white areas are distributed
evenly across the rectangle. First align the checkerboard at 0,0.
Each embeded piece introduces an excess or deficiency of 2 iff it is centered
on a point whose x and y coordinates have opposite parity.
Hence there are an even number of these pieces.
Shift the checkerboard up one square, to force an even number of pieces
centered on points whose x and y coordinates have the same parity.
We have partitioned the pieces of the rectangle into two even subsets,
hence the order is even.

	Three-Colored Stripes

Since the shape fefe80 contains 15 squares,
we may assume the width of its housing rectangle is a multiple of three,
and overlay a repeating pattern of red, blue, and yellow vertical stripes.
Each horizontal piece introduces an excess of 3 red, blue, or yellow squares.
Let hr, hb, and hy denote the quantity of pieces in these three categories.
Meantime, each vertical piece introduces a deficiency of 6 squares.
Let vr, vb, and vy denote the quantity of these pieces.
The excess of red must equal the excess of blue, or 3hr - 6vr = 3hb - 6vb.
Divide by 3 and reduce mod 3 to obtain hr + vr = hb + vb.
By symmetry, each side of this equation is also equal to hy + vy.
The pieces of the rectangle have been partitioned into three subsets,
each having the same value mod 3. Thus the order is a multiple of 3.

This argument can be applied to a pair of hexominoes f08080_c06030,
an L piece and a staircase.
Assume the width of the tiled rectangle is divisible by 3,
and overlay a repeating pattern of red, blue, and yellow vertical stripes.
Staircases consume equal amounts of each,
whereas every L consumes an excess of one of the three colors.
Thus the number of L pieces is a multiple of 3.
Next, overlay a red blue yellow checkerboard,
where monocrome lines slant up and to the right.
This is neutral with respect to the L pieces, and half the staircases.
The stairs that slant with the checkerboard consume 2 out of 3 colors,
leaving a deficit of one color. The number of right slanting stairs is a multiple of 3.
Run the checkerboard the other way and make the same claim about the left
slanting stairs. Thus the set has order divisible by 3.
You can't often make these claims about sets of polyominoes,
but if you don't seek, you'll never find.

If the checkerboard argument applies to every piece in the set then it applies
to the set. An example is 80f080_e070.
trec checks for this.

	Travel Along The Edge

Consider the shape fcf0f0, which resembles Oklahoma.
Drop down to the floor of the rectangle and note that Oklahoma cannot stand on
its pan handle. Nor can it lie on its face.
It must either rest on its back or stand up on its blunt end.
These orientations consume 6 and 3 squares respectively.
Thus both dimensions are divisible by 3,
and the order of this polyomino is a multiple of 9.
One can prove that pairs of pieces on the floor face or point towards
each other, (left as an exercise for the reader),
thus consuming 6 and 12 squares respectively,
hence each dimension is divisible by 6.
Indeed, its minimal rectangle is 66 by 84.

The polyomino f8f880 provides another example.
This boot-shaped piece is "standing up" or "pointing up"
when it is oriented vertically with its toe on the floor.
Verify that a piece cannot point down or lie face down.
It either stands up or lies on its back.
If a, on the floor, faces or points right, then b, just to the right of a,
must face or point towards a. This is obvious when a stands up,
and not too hard to prove when a lies down.
Put b to the right of a in a forbidden position, pointing right or facing right.
The gap above a must be filled by c and d, and c, on the left,
cannot protrude horizontally to the left of a,
hence c points down and faces left.
Now e fills the gap to the left of c by extending horizontally,
and the space below e, just to the left of a, cannot be filled.
Thus, as we move along the floor, or any wall,
the border pieces can be grouped into pairs -
pairs that face or point towards each other. Such a pair is called a complex.
Two vertical pieces form a small complex of width 6,
a vertical and a horizontal piece form a medium complex of width 8,
and two horizontal pieces form a large complex of width 10.
Each dimension is even, and the shape has order divisible by 4.

With e0f080, pieces group together in pairs on the floor, consuming 4 or 6 squares.
Once again each dimension is even.

	An Odd Tiling

There are certainly rectangles that are tiled with an odd number of pieces,
they just don't seem to be minimal. The suboptimal tiling of e0e080,
which you can see in pictures/e0e080sub.png,
presents a rectangle with 45 pieces.
This is not an artificially contrived rectangle;
it is the smallest rectangle having a width of 15.
This casts some doubt on the "even order" conjecture,
for it seems a mere matter of chance that a smaller, 14×14 tiling exists,
giving the even order of 28.
Also, in 3 dimensions, e0e080 has order 9, filling a 3 by 3 by 7 box.

